---
layout: page
title: About
---

I am a master's student studying Computer Science at Georgia Tech. Right now,
I'm learning to hack computer systems, but I plan to get to the ivory tower
courses towards the end of my degree (for science, and for our children). You
could say that I'm a [rambling wreck from Georgia
Tech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O6JXKMxRgQ8), and am on my way to become a
helluva engineer.

I'm primarily interested in working on challenging projects which lie at the
intersection of implementation and theory. I like system-y stuff, parallelism,
concurrency, algorithms, and am really excited about programming languages and
compilers. I'm taking Advanced Operating Systems, Database System
Implementation, Computer Networks, and Machine Learning this semester. Which
means that I'll be hacking KVM,
[buzzDB](https://buzzdb-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html), reading stuff
like [this](https://www.vmware.com/pdf/usenix_resource_mgmt.pdf), finally
understanding how BGP works, exactly, and figuring out what the heck goes on
under those scikit-learn-TensorFlow-Torch black boxes. 

As a final year undergrad at College of Engineering Pune, I did a co-op /
internship at Veritas Technologies in the Infoscale team, working on a
Kubernetes Container Storage Interface driver for Infoscale. Essentially, it is
a microservice that implements [this gRPC
interface](https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec). Kubernetes will
call this microservice for allocating volumes for containers that it schedules.
This was an awesome experience, because it allowed me to work with Kubernetes
Custom Resources, code-generation, and the CSI spec. To put it simply, I worked
as a developer who _extends_ the platform, rather than someone who uses it for
_deploying_ his workloads. And boy did I love it!

Before that, I did a research internship at IIT Kanpur in December 2019-20 and
summer 2020 with Prof. Swarnendu Biswas, where I worked on sparse matrix format
selection for Sparse Matrix-Vector Multiplication (one of the ways you can run
PageRank) on GPUs and high performance processors. During the internship, I
created a semi-supervised format selection model which only requires labelling
of a 10% subset of the training set, with a view to inexpensively create models
for different processor architectures and enhance portability.  During the
winter and in early summer I studied NVIDIA CUSP CUDA kernels for Sparse Matrix
Vector multiplication, and created schemes for creating representative sparse
matrix samples for format selection. Also proposed new statistical features for
characterising sparse matrices with respect to these kernels. Our work resulted
in a paper at ICPP 2021's DUAC workshop. Have a look at it
[here](https://www.cse.iitk.ac.in/users/swarnendu/files/papers/spmv-duac21.pdf)

I was the ADCS Subsystem Lead at COEP's Satellite Initiative. We are working on
designing (and hope to launch) a Solar Sailing satellite- one which maneuvers
its orbit purely using solar radiation. My work involved designing and testing
solar sail orientations for maximizing orbit rise. I built a continuous thrust
propagator using the Python API of GMAT's General Mission Analysis Tool, and
validated it. I found some anomalous trends in the satellite's orbit, in the
simulations, and found an interesting explanation for these anomalies- the
fact that the earth [is not actually
spherical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nodal_precession). Before that I
worked on adding modules to a C-based satellite orientation simulation in an
*ooold* codebase. Other than that, I used to hang around in the lab being generally
chatty and poking my nose in when when our onboard computer folks sat
discussing BCH, stackless coroutines, and deadlocks. If you are a COEP student,
consider joining the team the next time they conduct inductions! CSAT has got
really cool stuff going on.

Besides this, the other things from undergrad that I loved doing were [hacking
xv6](https://github.com/akshayrdeodhar/xv6-kthreads), building an AI chess game,
whom I named "[Trillian](https://github.com/akshayrdeodhar/trillian)" (a Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy reference), and my
[brief tryst](https://github.com/akshayrdeodhar/sicp) with the charms of Functional Programming and
Scheme when I was young and carefree. 

This is a personal website, but it is also my blog- the posts are scattered and
mostly not deeply CS related, but hey! Other stuff is fun too! If you want to
see my code, look at my [github](https://github.com/akshayrdeodhar).

Inspite of my respect for Emacs and Arch users, I opt to use Vim and Manjaro,
and have grown to love the GUI package manager. I'm an open source fan.
Recently, I started using Clang instead of GCC.

I hope to do things in life other than CS- I've at different points in time been
really into trekking, Sci-Fi and Fantasy, Wodehouse, Douglas Adams, classical
music (western and Hindustani), Chess, and Badminton. I've written some weird
but entertaining articles for our college magazine, and served as editor for a
year. I have a long-unfulfilled wish of running a Dungeons and Dragons
campaign in a highly detailed steampunk world. I learned a bit of sculling
during my summer break after second year, but have a tendency to fall into the
Mutha river from the stablest of boats. Now, I'm learning rock-climbing.
