cool_stuff.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: Cool Stuff
---

- _"I'm not even sure where preorder numbers come into play. The only application I know of for preorder numbers is to trick you on exams or homeworks"_ -[Vigoda the Betrayer](https://sites.cs.ucsb.edu/~vigoda/), _former_ Professor, Computer Science Department, Georgia Tech. [Link](https://learn.udacity.com/courses/ud401/lessons/e60026f0-1859-4da9-b17d-b92b05d597f1/concepts/d3476004-3d6e-4203-be57-75378a24bb23)

- _"Ever notice how "Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn" and "Protected abstract virtual typedef'd copy constructor function" sound identical underwater?"_ -Steve Yegge, Stevey's Drunken Blog Rants

- [_"I would snort VTI if it came as a powder."_](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bogleheads/comments/ztyr9q/comment/j1gmzzd/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) -Hot-Praline7204, reddit.com/r/bogleheads

- "_A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects._" ― Robert A. Heinlein

- _“The finest line of poetry ever uttered in the history of this whole damn
  country was said by Canada Bill Jones in 1853, in Baton Rouge, while he was
  being robbed blind in a crooked game of faro. George Devol, who was, like
  Canada Bill, not a man who was averse to fleecing the odd sucker, drew Bill
  aside and asked him if he couldn't see that the game was crooked. And Canada
  Bill sighed, and shrugged his shoulders, and said, 'I know. But it's the only
  game in town.' And he went back to the game.”_ --**Neil Gaiman, American
  Gods**.

- **A beautiful excrept from Terry Pratchett's "Reaper Man"**: _Death's dialouge is CAPITALIZED_.

    _"Picture a tall, dark figure, surrounded by cornfields...\
    NO, YOU CAN'T RIDE A CAT. WHO EVER HEARD OF THE DEATH OF RATS RIDING A CAT? THE DEATH OF RATS WOULD RIDE SOME KIND OF DOG.\
    Picture more fields, a great horizon-spanning network of fields, rolling in gentle waves...\
    DON'T ASK ME I DON'T KNOW. SOME KIND OF TERRIER, MAYBE.\
    ...fields of corn, alive, whispering in the breeze...\
    RIGHT, AND THE DEATH OF FLEAS CAN RIDE IT TOO. THAT WAY YOU KILL TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE.\
    ...awaiting the clockwork of the seasons.\
    METAPHORICALLY.”_

- **A veiled boast about C++**: _There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the ones nobody uses. ― Bjarne Stroustrup_

- **State Machines**: _A computer is a state machine. Threads are for people who can't program
  state machines --Alan Cox_. From [lkml](https://lkml.org/lkml/2001/6/19/62). I don't know how he meant it, but I personally
  found state machines to be a very good way to design programs. Everytime I
  find an elegant design that uses state machines, I wonder why I don't use
  those more often. 

- _You can’t just place a LISP book on top of an x86 chip and hope that the hardware learns about lambda calculus by osmosis._ --James Mickens, about the undeniable reality of pointers, in  "[The Night Watch](http://scholar.harvard.edu/files/mickens/files/thenightwatch.pdf)". The entire [The Wisdom of James Mickens](https://mickens.seas.harvard.edu/wisdom-james-mickens) series is awesome. James is a man after my own heart.

- **Two Kinds of Gifts**: From [Graduate School, Keys to
  Success](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqPSnjewkuA) by Remzi Arpaci-Dusseau, originally
  from "The Art of Game Design" by Jesse Schelle

	Well, here is a little secret about gifts. There are two kinds. First, there is
	the innate gift of a given skill. This is the minor gift. If you have this gift,
	a skill such as game design, mathematics, or playing the piano comes naturally
	to you. You can do it easily, almost without thinking. But you don’t neces-
	sarily enjoy doing it. There are millions of people with minor gifts of all
	kinds, who, though skilled, never do anything great with their gifted skill, and
	this is because they lack the major gift.
	  
	The major gift is love of the work. This might seem backward. How can love of
	using a skill be more important than the skill itself? It is for this simple
	reason: If you have the major gift, the love of designing games, you will
	design games using whatever limited skills you have. And you will keep doing
	it. And your love for the work will shine through, infusing your work with an
	indescribable glow that only comes from the love of doing it.

- **On Computer Science**: *"Computer Science is no more about computers than
  astronomy is about telescopes"* --[EWD](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/).
  Also referenced in [Structure and Interpretation of Computer
  Programs](https://github.com/sarabander/sicp-pdf)

- **Computer Science is Mathematics**: From [Ask Me Anything with Simon Peyton
  Jones, hosted by Benjamin
  Pierce](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLerxBNiHDo), PLDI 2020.

	For me, Computer Science is Mathematics made incarnate, right? Made flesh.
	Made tangible. If you think about a loop- a loop is induction in
	execution! How am I sure that the loop does give the right answer? You have
	to give an inductive proof. Computer Science is the way that we manifest or
	animate mathematics.


- **The Clockwise/Spiral Rule**: [From c-faq](
  http://c-faq.com/decl/spiral.anderson.html), originally by David Anderson.
  Helping people parse C declarations in interviews since 1994. Because of
  course, if I were working on a real project, I'd use the program from KnR to
  be sure. But it turns out, not having to consult documentation for language
  features _does_ make you a better programmer..

Commit message:

the value of education, in the words of Hal Abelson

cool_stuff.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: Cool Stuff
---

- _"Ultimately, the more educated and creative you are, the easier it will be for you to entertain yourself and never be bored."_ -[Hal Abelson](https://mitp-content-server.mit.edu/books/content/sectbyfn/books_pres_0/6515/sicp.zip/index.html), [paraphrased](https://blog.vivekhaldar.com/post/25136762019/advice-to-prospective-grad-students).

- _"I'm not even sure where preorder numbers come into play. The only application I know of for preorder numbers is to trick you on exams or homeworks"_ -[Vigoda the Betrayer](https://sites.cs.ucsb.edu/~vigoda/), _former_ Professor, Computer Science Department, Georgia Tech. [Link](https://learn.udacity.com/courses/ud401/lessons/e60026f0-1859-4da9-b17d-b92b05d597f1/concepts/d3476004-3d6e-4203-be57-75378a24bb23)

- _"Ever notice how "Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn" and "Protected abstract virtual typedef'd copy constructor function" sound identical underwater?"_ -Steve Yegge, Stevey's Drunken Blog Rants

- [_"I would snort VTI if it came as a powder."_](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bogleheads/comments/ztyr9q/comment/j1gmzzd/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) -Hot-Praline7204, reddit.com/r/bogleheads

- "_A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects._" ― Robert A. Heinlein

- _“The finest line of poetry ever uttered in the history of this whole damn
  country was said by Canada Bill Jones in 1853, in Baton Rouge, while he was
  being robbed blind in a crooked game of faro. George Devol, who was, like
  Canada Bill, not a man who was averse to fleecing the odd sucker, drew Bill
  aside and asked him if he couldn't see that the game was crooked. And Canada
  Bill sighed, and shrugged his shoulders, and said, 'I know. But it's the only
  game in town.' And he went back to the game.”_ --**Neil Gaiman, American
  Gods**.

- **A beautiful excrept from Terry Pratchett's "Reaper Man"**: _Death's dialouge is CAPITALIZED_.

    _"Picture a tall, dark figure, surrounded by cornfields...\
    NO, YOU CAN'T RIDE A CAT. WHO EVER HEARD OF THE DEATH OF RATS RIDING A CAT? THE DEATH OF RATS WOULD RIDE SOME KIND OF DOG.\
    Picture more fields, a great horizon-spanning network of fields, rolling in gentle waves...\
    DON'T ASK ME I DON'T KNOW. SOME KIND OF TERRIER, MAYBE.\
    ...fields of corn, alive, whispering in the breeze...\
    RIGHT, AND THE DEATH OF FLEAS CAN RIDE IT TOO. THAT WAY YOU KILL TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE.\
    ...awaiting the clockwork of the seasons.\
    METAPHORICALLY.”_

- **A veiled boast about C++**: _There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the ones nobody uses. ― Bjarne Stroustrup_

- **State Machines**: _A computer is a state machine. Threads are for people who can't program
  state machines --Alan Cox_. From [lkml](https://lkml.org/lkml/2001/6/19/62). I don't know how he meant it, but I personally
  found state machines to be a very good way to design programs. Everytime I
  find an elegant design that uses state machines, I wonder why I don't use
  those more often. 

- _You can’t just place a LISP book on top of an x86 chip and hope that the hardware learns about lambda calculus by osmosis._ --James Mickens, about the undeniable reality of pointers, in  "[The Night Watch](http://scholar.harvard.edu/files/mickens/files/thenightwatch.pdf)". The entire [The Wisdom of James Mickens](https://mickens.seas.harvard.edu/wisdom-james-mickens) series is awesome. James is a man after my own heart.

- **Two Kinds of Gifts**: From [Graduate School, Keys to
  Success](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqPSnjewkuA) by Remzi Arpaci-Dusseau, originally
  from "The Art of Game Design" by Jesse Schelle

	Well, here is a little secret about gifts. There are two kinds. First, there is
	the innate gift of a given skill. This is the minor gift. If you have this gift,
	a skill such as game design, mathematics, or playing the piano comes naturally
	to you. You can do it easily, almost without thinking. But you don’t neces-
	sarily enjoy doing it. There are millions of people with minor gifts of all
	kinds, who, though skilled, never do anything great with their gifted skill, and
	this is because they lack the major gift.
	  
	The major gift is love of the work. This might seem backward. How can love of
	using a skill be more important than the skill itself? It is for this simple
	reason: If you have the major gift, the love of designing games, you will
	design games using whatever limited skills you have. And you will keep doing
	it. And your love for the work will shine through, infusing your work with an
	indescribable glow that only comes from the love of doing it.

- **On Computer Science**: *"Computer Science is no more about computers than
  astronomy is about telescopes"* --[EWD](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/).
  Also referenced in [Structure and Interpretation of Computer
  Programs](https://github.com/sarabander/sicp-pdf)

- **Computer Science is Mathematics**: From [Ask Me Anything with Simon Peyton
  Jones, hosted by Benjamin
  Pierce](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLerxBNiHDo), PLDI 2020.

	For me, Computer Science is Mathematics made incarnate, right? Made flesh.
	Made tangible. If you think about a loop- a loop is induction in
	execution! How am I sure that the loop does give the right answer? You have
	to give an inductive proof. Computer Science is the way that we manifest or
	animate mathematics.


- **The Clockwise/Spiral Rule**: [From c-faq](
  http://c-faq.com/decl/spiral.anderson.html), originally by David Anderson.
  Helping people parse C declarations in interviews since 1994. Because of
  course, if I were working on a real project, I'd use the program from KnR to
  be sure. But it turns out, not having to consult documentation for language
  features _does_ make you a better programmer..
