---
layout: post
title: "About a kernel panic and in praise of the wonderous compiler that is GCC"
date: 2020-03-28
---

I have been mucking around with the xv6 kernel lately, adding my ugly code and
diminishing it's elegance. This has resulted in infinite loops, page faults,
triple faults, and kernel panics. 

This post is about a stupid piece of code I wrote today, and cool shit I learned
while debugging it.

While I was running tests for my system calls, the kernel *panicked*. As the
kernel manages all hardware resources, it must be extremely secure. A null
pointer derefernce or a deadlock in the kernel, or something that might lead to
undefined behaviour is to be prevented at all costs. So, whenever there is a
trap or exception *inside* the kernel, the kernel panics.

![The kernel panicked. And so did I](/assets/panic_image.png)

First, I tried to replicate the error. Losing the error would have been
horrible, because that would mean an *undetected* bug. Thankfully, it happened
again. I started thinking about rewriting my code, regretting the fact that I 
had not made proper commits in my frenzy.

Then I got to my senses, and tried to find out the reason behind the trap.

Trap number 6. Inspect traps.h. **Invalid Opcode**. This made me hypothesize
that somehow, the user program had gained access to kernel memory, and had
overwritten the code segment with some invalid value. But then, the user program
I was running made no system call where the kernel dereferenced a pointer passed
by the user.

Then, I looked at the eip. 

	eip = 801047e3

Let's take a look at the kernel assembly code- if there is a valid instruction
in the assembly code, and yet there is a trap, it means that something nasty
happened and a non-malicious code had by fluke succeeded in changing the kernel 
code, and making it panic.

	objdump -D kernel | less

![Object dump shows a strange instruction](/assets/objdump.png)

![Image implicating me](/assets/join.png)

This was my code! What is *ud2*? Googling yielded
[this](http://ftp.neutrino.es/x86InstructionSet/UD2.html).

*ud2* is an instruction which is *meant* to raise an invalid opcode exception.
What is ud2 doing in my code? And which is the exact snippet that got compiled
down to ud2?

![Annotated kernel.asm file](/assets/kernel_asm.png)

For debugging with gdb, a *symbol table* is needed. The xv6 makefile has a
debugging mode recipe, which generates .asm files (which are needed for line by
line source level debugging . Opening up kernel.asm ...  Ah! Here is ud2! Below
p\-\>process\-\>threadcount -= 1. Now, there is nothing in this line of code
that should generate *ud2*. 

So I searched some more. Google "when does gcc generate ud2". Found [this answer
on
StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/26309300/c-code-with-undefined-results-compiler-generates-invalid-code-with-o3).
NULL pointer derefernce! 

And sure enough, on the line just above the line incrementing the thread count,
there was that fateful line of code saying p\-\>process = 0; Wow. This is what
you get for arbitrarily inserting code without thinking.

It seems that GCC has a lot of tricks up it's sleeves. This has happened to me
before- looking at the differences in the object code generated with and without
the -O3 flag, and a recent experience where GCC reordered memory accesses and
caused my communicating threads to deadlock. It's a good idea to inspect 
assembly code once in a while.
