---
layout: post
title: "Automatically generate repetitive PBS scripts for fun and profit"
date: 2021-10-25
---

For one of my courses this Fall, I had to write PBS job scripts for conducting
some performance benchmarking experiments on our university's HPC cluster. The
scripts were essentially the same- I had to run a particular program for various
combinations of (nodes, cores per node). Each combination required me to write a
new script, putting in new filenames for the output, and new directives for
allocating nodes and cores. The first time I tried to run these experiments, I
thought, "I'll spend more time doing automation than I'll save from having
automation". So I wrote 16 scripts manually.

The experiments failed. One of the reasons was misconfigured parameters. The
other was psychological- _the moment I had decided to write all the scripts
manually, I had accepted defeat_. 

A week later, I ended up having to run the same experiments again. This time, I
wanted to do things **right**. I decided to automate script generation. First, I
poked around with [m4](https://mbreen.com/m4.html#toc6)- I'd used it before for
generating [GMAT]() scripts with custom parameters[^1]. But then, I hit a
roadblock. 

If you want to allocate exactly _3_ nodes with _4_ cores each using scheduler
directives, here's what you have to write: 

```bash
	#PBS -l nodes=1:ppn=4+1:ppn=4+1:ppn=4
```

In general, if I want to allocate n nodes with m cores each, I'll write-

```bash
	#PBS -l nodes=1:ppn=m+1:ppn=m+1:ppn=m... <n> times
```

Now m4 does, theoretically allow you to write recursive macros which will repeat
a string n times. But I really was in no mood for learning the syntax of a new
esoteric language simply for automating script generation. And then I realized
that I had done loops in templates before- in *jinja2*![^2] In jinja2, the above
statement could be generate as follows:

{% raw %}
```bash
	#PBS -l nodes={% for node in node_list %}{{ node }}{% endfor %}

```
{% endraw %}

With the following argument passed to jinja's _render_ method:
	
```python
	node = "1:ppn={}".format(cores)
	args = {
		"node_list": [node + "+".format(cores) for i in range(processors - 1] + [node],
		...
	}
```

After hunting around for a bit, I found out how to use jinja on [arbitrary
template
files](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30382187/render-jinja2-template-without-a-flask-context).
What you need is a `FileSystemLoader`.

Here is a useful snippet to serve as an example-
[gist](https://gist.github.com/akshayrdeodhar/2cfedf2ce0a43a0a2628ea1de5941624).

Now here's the thing- _I ended up running all the experiments 4 more times_. But
now, all I had to do for new tweaks was change the template- the python would
take care of generating all 16 files. This made my life bearable.

When I was a kid, I used to hate stories that had morals in them, mostly 
because they were artificially constructed for somehow "instilling" that moral
in the listener (usually a bored 6 year old). To give an example, there was a
story where a monkey refuses to share a fruit containing a poisonous seed, and ends up
dead as a result. Another "virtuous" monkey splits the fruit in two and shares it with their
friend, causing the poisonous seed to fall off, with that monkey not ending up
dead. I could go on, but I really should be writing a B+ tree instead of this
blog post, and the least I can do is not spend my time ranting about bad
short stories.

Anyway, the story that I have told is 100% organic, and has a real moral (unlike
some stories that are "enriched" with morals), and thus I believe I can add some
lessons that people can take away.

1. **Automation is worth the effort** even if it ends up consuming equal or slightly
   more time than it saves. This is because it makes your process
   _reproducible_, _easier to debug_, _more accurate_ and _less of a
   psychological burden_. It is also a way of having fun.

2. **Jinja2 can be used in generic python scripts, independent of Flask**.
   [Here's](https://gist.github.com/akshayrdeodhar/2cfedf2ce0a43a0a2628ea1de5941624)
   an example of how.

3. Magic is for winners, kids! **Don't do drugs**. -Sean Plott aka Day9

If you know a better way of configuring jobs using PBS, [reach
out!](mailto:akshayrdeodhar@gmail.com).


1. I wanted to run an orbit raising simulation for several combinations of
  Keplerian elements using GMAT. While GMAT can be invoked from the command
  line, it does not take command-line arguments. So, I had to modify the
  simulation script every time. Instead, I added macros inside the script for 
  the Keplerian elements, and used it as a template. Then, in the inner loop of
  my bash script, I used to generate a new script file, pass it to GMAT, run the
  simulation, rinse and repeat.

2. Of course, you could also write the whole script as a single python
  string, and then call .format() on the string, but I did not want to do that,
  for obvious reasons.
