---
layout: post
title: "The city at dusk"
date: 2021-03-24
---

<img src = "/assets/city-twilight.jpg" width="100%" alt="The city at twilight" align = "center">

I suppose that men have been climbing mountains for thousands of years now.
Frustration, Sadness, and $(THIRD\_THING) have been known to man since the time
they started living in "society", and have become 100x after communication
became more and more advanced (enabling you to compare yourself with more and
more people who you had to be "better" than). Put these two things together, and
you get a trope- that of a sad/frustrated/lonely person climbing a mountain or
some equivalent structure that has elevation, and sitting down at the top,
looking over a magnificent view. In fiction, this leads to an Aha! moment that
gives them the strength to overcome their troubles. In real life, this gives
people a few moments of peace. Another famous "high place" trope is Sitting up
late at night with friends, possibly in a terrace or a balcony, talking about
"life".  There are others, of course, which consider the *other* meaning of
"high", but I'm not interested in those.


Over the last few years I have become quite attached (addicted?) to this one
hill. Its identity will be obvious to readers who know me personally. I've been
visiting this place regularly for years. And for a long time, I'd only noticed
natural beauty. In monsoon, the sun peeps in and out of the gray clouds, each of
them bearing some semblance to a fantastic beast, its light scattered (or
refracted, or whatever) in all directions, each part of the sky showing a
different shade of orange.  Sometimes, the rays of the setting sun seem like the
embers of a dying furnace, not harsh, but giving off warmth. In the spring, pink
blossoms adorn the otherwise dry trees. (Apparently, these have been imported
from Africa, because they grow well without requiring too much water. This
allows "the government" to do afforestation using minimum resources). The old
stone quarry fills up during the monsoon, and a small pond forms in one corner.
We used to sit down on its shore, joking about it being "that lake where 3
Idiots was shot".

Anyway, recently, I noticed a new component of the horizon at (and after)
sunset- the city! The concrete jungle that is Pune had been growing steadily for
years, and had reached a point where there was no purely "natural" space left.
And it was..  *amazing*. Interspersed, the greenery and the handsome buildings
make up a wonderful view. This got me thinking- I'd probably hate living in a
world where there is no printed text, internet, or machines. Industrialization
does not deserve all the hate that it gets. But I digress. The point of this
piece is not social commentary. Back to the view. 

I sit at the hillside's edge, looking at the horizon. The sun sets. At twilight,
the city lights up, and its bright lights are juxtaposed with the streaks of the
retreating orange sunlight. A cool breeze blows. The many sounds of the city-
vehicles, car horns, and that of the wind, mixed together, remind me of the sea.
I'm overcome by sudden urge to pull out my phone and take photos, which I
suspect I won't look at again.  But for once, the photos look almost as good as
the "real" view, and I end up looking at them multiple times over the next month.
And suddenly, twilight becomes my favourite time for visiting my favourite
place.

When the sunlight disappears, the many colors of city lights become
distinguishable- shades of yellow, orange, red, and white. I walk back, my head
turned, still taking in the city lights. I feel at peace. I'll be back.

And now.. amateur photography.


I wonder that the reflecting surface is..

<img src = "/assets/city-reflection.jpg" width="100%" alt="The city at dusk, reflection" align = "center">

I suppose the sun's colors are the best part of this picture.

<img src = "/assets/city-dusk.jpg" width="100%" alt="Nature steals the show" align = "center">

Believe it or not, but this is *not* a timelapse.

<img src = "/assets/city-timelapse.jpg" width="100%" alt="Timelapse?" align = "center">


