---
layout: post
title: "Tales from the road, and Vegas"
date: 2024-01-06
---


# Tales From The Road

\*\*\*

**Day Two**

<img src = "/assets/mesa_arch.jpg" width="100%" alt="The city at twilight" align = "center">

Its 7am at Canyonlands National Park, the sun peeps through the Mesa Arch,
nestled at the end of a cliff overlooking a landscape that perfectly fits its
name. Twoscore early risers are positioned in front of the arch, their
camera-phones ready to capture the magnificence of the sunrise. Too proud to
jostle with the crowd for a perch, and absolved of the responsibility of
clicking high-resolution photos owing to my low-resolution phone camera (which
is leagues better than most cameras from the 2010s), I walk around searching for
a unique place from whence to witness the morning's glory. In a few minutes, the
quiet sun is up in the sky, its soft rays slowly spreading across the
canyonlands ("dripping into the canyons like honey" if you will). Somewhere in
between, the slow chatter of the crowd dies down, and there is a moment of
perfect silence. After walking around for a while, and completing my ritual of
taking a nap in the sunlight, once the crowd has thinned a little, I click one
photo of the sun through the arch, the field of view partially blocked by other
people. We leave a while later, chuckling at an argument between two tourists
clearly bereft of sleep in their quest for the perfect photo, where one is told
that "turning up early does not mean they own the place" A few days later, when
I look at it again, I see a gleaming line of golden light stretching diagonally
across the photo, like it does in sci-fi movies. Perhaps being early _is_ worth
it.

\*\*\*

**Day One**

<img src = "/assets/antelope_island.jpg" width="100%" alt="The city at twilight" align = "center">

An hour's drive from Salt Lake City, the Antelope Island was my first true
glimpse of the beauty of Utah. Running up a mile-long trail to catch the sunset,
panting as I clear the last turn and look upon the lake ahead, I let out a
woot of joy. Across the craggly white rock stretches a symphony in color.
Browns and blues and oranges meld, the clear reflecting surface of the lake
making boundaries between them indistinguishable. The sun dips into the lake.
The vibrant colors tone down. A mellow beauty emerges, the sun and the moon
sharing the stage for a brief time. An upward moving plane (rocket?) makes an
appearance. The island seems to be swarming with tourists from Texas, and one of
them rightly states "Utah is much prettier". 

The thing is, Utah _is_ pretty. It is a landscape of wonder, a beautiful desert
filled with shattered canyons, especially spectacular underneath the rays of the
rising or the setting sun. I cannot (rather, shall not) comment on whether
Joseph Smith found engraved golden plates, or if he truly returned them to the
Angel Maroni, but the Latter-Day Saints seem to have done well for themselves,
finding paradise in Utah. Salt Lake City is a charming town (here, charming does
not mean "small", unlike the "cozy" hotel rooms we grew accustomed to over the
course of the trip), with elevation variations, surrounding hills, and
neighbourhoods of small cottages a walking distance away from the imposing state
capitol. The airport is one of the most pleasing ones I have seen in the US-
happy (perhaps polygamic) families stand smiling at the gates holding up
placards welcoming their aged relatives or their college-going kids coming home
for the Thanksgiving holidays. In the lobby, a professor of music from Utah
State university plays the guitar, elegantly dressed in a coat covering a
t-shirt. Kids climb the shelves of craglike structures that serve as sitting
areas. Perhaps there is something to be said about conservative cultures.. or
perhaps I say this only because a Mormon has never knocked on my door.

After an evening of experiencing the pure beauty of nature, we turned to
material pleasures, walking the aisles of a large Costco, marvelling at the
living temple of American civilization. Shoppers had piled up their carts with
food that would last them all winter, and were gorging on more at the cafeteria.
We ourselves bagged a heap of chocolate brownie "bites" (as large as cupcakes),
and dozens of Kirkland (TM) mineral water bottles at the low-low cost of 3
dollars, awaiting ~~the dumpster~~ recycling. I also learned about Costco's "No
questions asked, satisfaction guaranteed" returns policy.  For some reason, I
had a feeling that our party would not be satisfied with the drone and the GoPro
camera that had been purchased from a Costco at the beginning of the trip. We
polished off a large cheese pizza that (truly) did not taste like cardboard,
resisted the temptations of the large ice-creams that people were digging into
around us, and were on our way.

\*\*\*

A sidenote- Google Pixel can take particularly good photos of the moon. This has
become a running joke across our trip(s). A friend has accumulated many
photographs of the hare on the moon, furnished by the AI/ML capabilities (read:
domain specific hardware programmed using Halide) of the TPU core. When we visit
the Lowell observatory, and wait in line for our turn to peer into the cosmos
using their telescopes at near-zero temperatures, I wonder if taking a quick
peek at the moon using the phone's camera would qualify as stargazing. (actually
I don't, but the photos are so good, that it would be perfectly natural to do
so).

\*\*\*

**Day Three**

At the Arizona-Utah border lie five square miles of land that have defined the
moviegoer's perception of what the Wild West was like. This is a land of red
stone and sand, of marvellous mesas. More importantly, it is a holy land. The
land has memory. The land, its vegetation, the creatures that inhabit it,
its seasons, the passing of seasons in the winter is sacred to the people who
live there. 

What comes to mind when you think of the Navajo? A backward, reclusive
community that does not understand the ways of the world? You couldn't be more
wrong. The Navajo do practice the lifestyle of their fathers, and make medicine
from herbs, and have stories about the past. But they do have electricity! Their
children go to school just as ours do! They also have vehicles, the latest
smartphone, and many have gone through a college education. Not all Navajo live
in Navajo nation, and those who do venture outside and go about their business
just like the rest of us. It is admirable that they have been able to preserve
their heritage after being exposed to the evils of modern civilization. 

Our Navajo guide seemed a little harried as we drove into the View Hotel
overlooking the valley, minutes before our tour was supposed to start. I found
this surprising, but post-enlightenment, I reasoned that time, too must be
sacred to the Navajo. Over the course of the trip, I learned many truths about
the world. I learned that the Navajo knew of things before they happened, or of
those that they had never seen. Imagine my surprise, when I learned that one of
the sacred mesas (plateaus) was named as a sleeping dragon mesa- dragons are
rooted in European mythologies. A later explanation from a Matriarch of the
tribe eradicated my skepticism- "We all come from the same place across the sea"
she said "All men are the same, no matter their skin color, language,
birthplace"- surely, the Navajo cultural memory must include mythologies from
across the sea. Further on, I discovered that the Navajo were also prescient-
years before Charles M. Shultz created Peanuts, the Navajo had known of the
coming of Snoopy- for one of the mesas is named as "Snoopy looking up to the
stars". After a long drive full of wonderous (and sacred) sights, our guide
stopped at John Wayne point, where we partook of the traditional Navajo fried
bread (similar to a Bhatura, the recipe must have been preserved in cultural
memory).  We had been told that the stop had to be for 15 minutes or more-
unquestioning of the wisdom of our guide's ways, we absorbed the aura of the
place, basking in the same sun that shined upon those filmmakers blessed enough
to be able to film in the holy land. Later were we brought upon the august
presence of a tribe elder, Loretta, who told us about why one must walk
counter-clockwise into a hogon (a most ingenious conical structure made of 
wooden logs, packed with mud, an energy efficient design that keeps the occupant
warm in the winter, and cool in the summer), and the importance of imperfections
in every piece of art the Navajo create.

On our way back, I gained further knowledge about the Navajo people. The Navajo
are curious about the customs of others, and of the occurrence of arranged
marriages in India. The Navajo can be divorcees, and their husbands may have run
away with other women. The Navajo may have many children, only some of which stay
in touch with their mothers. The grandfathers of the Navajo can also be
unfaithful.  The Navajo have the latest IPhone, and teach their grandparents to
use it. Some Navajo are not inclined to participate in the commerce of the
modern world, while the more industrious ones work as tour guides on their
sacred lands. The Navajo speak slowly, but are quick in their driving, for the
presence of outsiders on their lands must cause great pain to the spirits that
reside there.  The Navajo charge a hefty fee for entering monument valley. For
all the glory that we witnessed, I implore tourists to not enter this valley,
lest they despoil its sanctity.

# Vegas is a one-time experience

<img src = "/assets/vegas.jpg" width="100%" alt="The city at twilight" align = "center">

Vegas. America's Sin City. A grand city of gold and grime alike. We drove into
the sin city, cold and empty on the last day of a trip filled with breathtaking
views of Utah's unforgiving, yet enchanting mountains. Pretty anticlimatic.

In my twenty-four hours in the city, I've seen all kinds of sin, sometimes
several at the same time. The city, of course, is merely a shell around its
glittering "strip"- a continuous stretch of and lined with casinos (which double
has hotels, resorts, shopping malls, and convention centers). It does not take
long to figure out who's boss.

The pavements lining the strip are peppered with "pharmacies" (most likely a
result of some loophole that lets them remain open 24 hours, selling alcohol),
tech advertisements, parking billboards, and escalators leading up to casinos. 

The casions seem to form a city in themselves, one level above the streets. Wide
overbridges connect the humongous casinos- tourists need never leave- just walk
across. Party music blares (although I found it tasteful) at the entrances.
Signs point patrons to levels and levels of free parking, and the buildings
stretch to the sky, with a glittering signs at the top, beckoning all to enter
and partake of the delights that they hold. 

And what delights may they be? Floors and floors of gambling halls, filled with
slot machines, sports betting bars, restaurants (like Tao's, one of the most
profitable establishments in the US, which beckons you to enjoy "religious
nightlife" and "spiritual dining", a large statue of Buddha showering blessings
over all who enter). The Venetian (my favourite casino by far) has the "Grand
Canal Shopping Center"- a long corridor filled with brand-name stores, bars,
restaurants, with a cleared water artificial canal running through the middle,
connecting "The Pallazo" with "The Venetian". A false sky-ceiling covers the
canal, with all external light blotted out. One section perpetually in daytime,
another forever locked in twilight. Gondolas float through the canal, with
opera-singing rowers taking tourists around, in a Venice imitation I'm not
entirely sure is accurate. With the smooth cobblestone pavements, charming
streetlamps, little bridges stretching across the canal (offering spots for
tourists to click millions of selfies) and the occasional opera singers
serenading the crowd, the corridor recreates (or to the discerning American
patron, outdoes) the atmosphere of Venice.

I am properly dazzled by this atmosphere on the cold and empty sunday night, and
return on monday afternoon, only to find the corridor overflowing with
hoodie-wearing, badge-flashing persons of diverse nationalities. The Venetian
(and the surrounding Palazzo and Wynn casinos) are host to a convention: AWS
reIgnite. Volunteers dressed like birds, with large artificial plumage
identifying them to be Amazon ~~employees~~ contractors walk around, looking
very "Happy to help". I feel at home, and this underdressed, company merchandise
toting tourist blends into the crowd of conference attendees.

I didn't gamble in Vegas, of course. Putting money in the machines has negative
E(X), and I might as well toss pennies into the canal, hoping they'd bring me
good luck. I didn't drink either- inspite of an arrogant bartender making me
show ID at the Grand Lux Cafe Bar (the assigned seating spot for poor losers
eating alone) where I watched old ladies day-drinking, eating a well-made
omelette stuffed with asparagus, mushrooms, spinach and havarti. And when well
dressed african american gentlemen graciously invited me into their stately
limousines for "a party and more", I laughed in their face. But I couldn't avoid
the sweet smell of secondhand cancer- wafting through the street, next to the
one-armed bandits, and at the airport. 

Vegas is grandiose. Elegant. I could even call it beautiful. I have a long
moment on one of the bridges after sunset before it gets cold, with the casinos
(and people) lighting up and well-dressed tourists walking in to the halls of
those esteemed institutions, marvelled. A city perpetually on vacation,
welcoming, nay, inviting any and all with open arms, at the low-low cost of
everything in their wallets at the time. 

Its time to go home. Google maps tourism mode kicks in. One of the "Deuces"
(double-decker buses plying along the strip) is cancelled, and I walk down to
the blue-line bus stop that will take me to the airport. I climb into the bus
with a trembling old man and the tourist he's so profusely trying to explain
directions to, and walk to the back, sitting next to a heavily tatooed guy
sleeping in the corner, straight out of "the wire". A few stops later, I decide
that I've had enough thrill climbing ledges in Utah on the trip, and need no
more, and change seats. Another confused european tourist walks in, sees two
empty seats, freezes for a moment, and sits next to the dangerous-looking person
in the row in front of mine, making a point of being unbiased and choosing the
seat _closest to the door_. One stop later, the poor driver notices that the
tatooed guy in the corner is sleeping, and hits upon the marvelous idea of
stopping the bus, and informing him that sleeping on buses is not allowed, while
man pretends to continue sleeping. A large burly man (I don't remember his other
characteristics, I'll call him Mr. Wallace) promises to "work on the driver's
ass" if he doesn't start the vehicle reasoning that "the driver ain't gonna hold
him up on his way home". After the formality of asking if the aforementioned
person is "threatening him", the driver goes back to the front, and we are on
our way. The tatooed man gets off at the next stop, commenting that Mr. Wallace
must have scared the driver. 

The airport stinks. Men are taking off their shirts in the security check line,
and revealing their hairy chests. The flooring looks gaudy- for some reason
everything in vegas must sparkle. Slot machines everywhere. People suffering
severely from mid-life crisis sit next to one armed bandits near the boarding
gate, feeding them dollar bills. A particularly distressed person checks their
bank balance on a mobile app, and continues to play, waiting for his flight.
Luckily, I find a nice bagel stand, share a laugh with the server who
mispronounces my name twice, and sit down to write about Vegas, wondering how I
can write something funny but frank about Vegas, without making people think I'm
not fun. I first decide to name my article "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas"
after an acclaimed book that I haven't read. Finally, I hit upon the perfect
title- "Vegas is a one-time experience".
