---
layout: post
title: "Inktober: The City"
date: 2025-10-16
---

My first introduction to San Francisco was "a city of crime, and drugs, and
homeless encampments on the streets". As an Atlanta resident (Georgia Tech
Represent!), I used to hurl slander at the "far left west", and their
policies that "borderline encourage" marijuana. SF was second only to Los
Angeles and Las Vegas, the third most sinful city in the US. SF was for hippies
and drug addicts. "I'd live in the Bay Area" I used to say "But not in SF". And
so it went on. Until one day, when I _saw_ the city of San Francisco. 

My first foray in the Bay Area was Palo Alto. A NIMBY neighborhood built around
Stanford, filled with students, affluent folks, and neighborhoods full of
Stanford professors. "It's like Kothrud" I used to say. Maybe I _am_ the person
that they are trying to keep out of their backyard, but I appreciated the
sentiment. We have this quiet, nice sanctuary, and we want to keep it that way.
I loved the presence of students, the downtown, the nice little hill in biking
distance, an echo of my beloved ARAI. I used to bike or walk home along the
Oregon expressway, sometimes late at night, blasting Rossini on my phone. When
some family member raised a concern, I used to say, "Relax, its Palo Alto, its
very safe, I could walk along that road at midnight".  No strange elements
here, I used to think. Just families minding their own business, parents
driving their kids to school, bikers. I liked Palo Alto.  It was suburbia, a
university town, a "happening" place with a cute downtown and farmers markets,
and a place of natural beauty, all at the same time.  I'd have loved to live in
Palo Alto, except that it was expensive. Palo Alto was my Prabhat Road, my
Mahatma Society, my quiet Ideal Colony. During my 4 months in the Bay Area, I
visited San Francisco not _once_. SF, I figured, was for those wannabe "fancy"
folks, who go "clubbing".

When I came back to the bay (victorious!) I stayed in Redwood Shores: another
affluent neighborhood, beautiful, my house next to the bay trail, inhabited by
rich middle aged people, its roads bare of human activity. I moved down to Sunnyvale,
living next to the bustling El Camino Real (a friend remarked "Aee Kamine!"),
with its scores of Indian and Chinese restaurants, The Hotel 22 bus plying down 
throughout the night. Sunnyvale is OK. Its boring. Finally I moved to North
San Jose, and that is essentially Karishma, and there's absolutely _nothing_
other than grandparents walking around and middle-aged couples walking around
in strollers. I'm happy with my short commute, but North San Jose is boring.

Over the next year and half, I ventured into San Francisco aronud 8 times. 

The first one I messed up. Did not know the right way to enter the city. Spent
half my day on the MUNI (but all the wrong lines). Did not look out the window.
Went to the _wrong_ places at Land's End- the Sutro baths are preserved
ancient urinals, and are disgusting. I did not know where to eat. And I was
unable to move fast. 

The second one I messed up too. It was too cold, it got dark early, I went on a
weekday, I did not know where to go. I _did_, however, snag some excellent
burritos in the mission, and some tea leaf salad at Yamo, a true
hole-in-the-wall Burmese spot staffed by an old woman and her daughter. Its very authentic- they
shout at you if you try to make them hurry. I walked the mission at night,
the friend that I went with slightly scared, a crazy woman screaming at us
while we were eating the salad.

The third time I went to SF, I never looked back. And I've been in love with
the city ever since. You just need to know where to go, and when. You should
be ready to walk a lot. And SF will leave you wanting for more.

New York is grand. Manhattan has got its curious grid-like streets. Exploring
New York is like a board game, where someone lets you loose on the board
with a certain number of dollers, access to railway lines. You traverse the board
seeking sights and food and amusement. Its huge. So on the next day, you spawn
at a different location on the board, and go out exploring again. But in Manhattan,
everything is _on_ the board. Things are efficient, stateley, famous. I admire 
the cities of the east, with their culture, their "walkability". Boston
reminds me of Pune. Philadelphia is quaint and homely, its crumbling glory 
giving it an air of romance. Chicago is pristine. Absolutely beautiful.

The City of San Francisco, the "city on a hill", shoruded in Carl the Fog,
wedged between the Pacific and the Bay, is strange. San Francisco is the rare noun 
that allows me to use the nonspecific adjective "interesting" without
feeling the slightest guilt. SF never ceases to surprise me. San Francisco
is many, many things, layers and layers, and there's more to be found 
everytime you delve into it. SF is _small_- 7x7 miles. The Colorado 
_airport_ is bigger than San Francisco. And its _filled_ with everything. 

I don't use "diverse" as praise. But (I paused before typing this)
diversity _does_ produce a rich culture.

Consider the Mission, my go-to spot to enter San Francisco. The right way
to enter SF is by taking the BART (Caltrain to Millbrae followed by the BART, or
the BART if you are in the Bay). The wrong way to enter San Francisco is by
the Caltrain, which takes you to 4th and Kings, a nice enough location, but
completely lacking flavour. The blasphemous way to enter San Francisco is
in a car, because (a) there's always the cheery chance of it getting smashed,
and (b) its a tiny city, walk around and use the MUNI for god's sake! The BART
spits you in the middle of the Mission, the semi-gentrified melting pot with
oh-so-many great places to eat, approximately the center where all the action
is. The escalator going up from 16th and Mission slowly brings you
up from the bowels of the earth, out into the sun, and a cool breeze 
(and the smell of marijuana) hits you as you walk into the square. There's 
street vendors selling knockoff medicine, dirty food, a couple of cops
or a cop car, unbothered by what's happening around them. But oh the contrast
of the warmth of the sun and the cool breeze on my face. I always imagine
it as "manifesting" in the middle of the city. 

The right _time_ to enter San Francisco is in the morning, (without food).  The
right _way_ to explore San Francisco (or any city, really, in my opinion) is to
alternate between food and walking, one fueling the other, and the other
bringing you back to the former. In the Mission, food is immediately at hand.
There's 3 (canonically 3, many more make such claims) different taquerias
claiming to make the world's best burrito. La Taqueria gives you long lines and
an explosion of flavor. El Farolito's forte is its ~girth~ size, a massive
burrito enough to last two meals (but NOT in SF, because you WILL eat more).
Taqueria Can-Cun has a creamy, homely feeling (and a semi-rude server who
mocked me, calling out "no meat" multiple times). Grab a burrito. Don't eat
inside- the mission also supplies you with the ultimate place for enjoying your
food, we'll get to that. If its past 11, grab some egg rolls (which don't
contain eggs) at Yamo (but do NOT ask the server how long it will take, and
bring cash- otherwise they'll point at the "ONLY CASH" board). Then make your
way uptown, as you diversify into refinement. Rhea's Deli is a rare case of an
expensive deli sandwich being worth the money. Right down the street is
Dandelion Chocolate, with its heady cocoa smell, fancy single-origin chocolate
tastings, with little review sheets to be filled out.  Deeply drink in the
(molten chocolate) european hot chocolate. Tartine is somewhat overpriced,
but has really, really good carrots in vinegar, only served as a side. I'm going
to stop now, because blatant food writing without a touch of sardonism is
not respectable prose.

Visits to "the city" fall into this pattern. I've got a formula for Palo Alto
too- pick a hike (or Stanford Dish), pick a restaurant (or Ramen Nagi) and pick
dessert (or Salt&Straw). Anyway, back to the city. A visit to SF should be food
and walking, interleaved. You always start with food in the Mission. Having 
procured food, you sit in the sun in Dolores Park, looking at the skyline. 
Take a deep breath, feel it in your stomach. (This might seem fake, or cringe,
but I really do this). A visit to SF must include the mission, the Pacific, 
a view of the Golden Gate Bridge, up-and-down roads, and views of the city.

About that downtown- There's few skyscrapers. This is something that I love.
SF is not a metropolis. Its modern alright- with offices of startups at the
bleeding-edge tech billboards plastered all over. The OpenAI offices (which I
have been inside!) are straight out of superhero comics, an OsCORP, delicate,
refined beauty on top of a cliff, precariously balanced between heaven and
hell. Its modern, but its not generic. There's no blocks of buildings, no
big-name companies and scores of office-workers milling around in suits.  If
you walk up the spiral stairs of the Coit Tower (or take the elevator) you'll
see everything- the bay in the east, and its piers, nearly uninhabited land in
the north, across the bridge, on the other side. The typical peninsula house,
houses with terraces, people standing on top, looking around, people having
parties in the afternoon. I sometimes think of SF as Rome, a city in the hills,
a shining beacon for all technology in the world to look up to. And the hills.
Oh the hills. Roads go up and up, starkly steep. Then you reach a crest, and
suddenly, you are thrown into a glorious view- a sudden slope that lets you 
see buildings far into the distance from your perch at the top. And at the end,
a glimpse of the waters of the bay.



