I had put off watching this movie for a long time. I'd head it's depressing,
about "social issues" and moreover, in a foreign language. Then one day on a
whim I stayed up late at night watching parasite. And I found it to be
beautiful.

Initially I had thought that I would *cringe* at the way the Kims infiltrate the
Park household. But the infiltration happened fast, and the music accompanying
the scenes is delightful. Parasite jumps into the story right away- the Kims get
into the rich Park houshold, and their wonderful house quite quickly. And then
one day, the Parks go camping, and the Kims make the mistake of getting drunk in
their employers' house. That's when things get interesting.

The old housekeeper (which the Kims replaced via subterfuge) returns. Thunder
flashes. And the secret doorway to the underground bunker opens. And things
begin to go downhill.

Yet with all it's gruesome imagery, the *scholar rock*, the staricases, Parasite
gives glimpses of happiness. Ki-sung, the father in the Kim family is shown to
make two toasts- one for getting free wifi, the other for their good fortune of
getting jobs with the Park family (in an age where 500 university graduates
apply for a the position of a security guard). 

There was a particular scene- where Moon-sae massages her weary husband Gung-Se,
while impersonating North Korean news anchors praising Kim-Jong-Un. Even in his
plight, he laughs and tells her how he missed her jokes. They reminiscence about
their youth, about sunlight streaming into the house's sitting room, them
peering into each others eyes, slow-dancing to *Ginnochino da te*, and drinking
tea sitting on the couch.  Of course, reality strikes hard and fast. 

This is a movie you *should* watch- not for it's social commentary (although it
is quite impactful), or because of it's Oscar win, but because it's a beautiful
work of art.

In fact, my opinion that the movies which win Oscars are *artsy* and not
actually good movies, has turned out to be a misconception- Spotlight, Whiplash,
Parasite, The King's Speech- there are things of beauty in all of them. Don't be
silly, watch them!
