My school friends had been "planning" a trek since October 2019. After months of
inactivity, a week of negotiations, and the one mandatory cancellation, we
finally did two treks- *Taila Baila* and *Ghanagad* this weekend. And boy it
felt good to be back.

We had initially made an ambitious plan of visiting *Jivdhan*, which is a tough
trek near Malshej ghat. But after much discussion, this plan was abandoned. The
reason is that Jivdhan is in Junnar, in Pune district. But to get there by
train, one needs to go to Kalyan (which is considered to be a part of Mumbai),
take a bus to Malshej Ghat, then a local taxi to the place where the trail
starts. A friend commented "*Trek nahi tras hoil*"- which means "It would be
trouble rather than a trek". (My father walked in and read this text, and
commented that the route I am proposing is stupid, because Jivdhan is further
from Kalyan than from Pune, and its quite possible to go to Malshej Ghat by bus
or by car from Pune, and the Harishchandragad, Jivdhan and Nanedhat treks are
quite feasible. Hopefully, one of these will give me reason to write a post on
another day. For now, I'll get back to Taila Baila.


The best part of the trip, undoubtedly, was "camping" under the stars in an open
field at night. Apoorv had shown great industriousness, and had obtained two
tents, which we had initially planned to pitch for sleeping at night. Because
these were arranged on short notice, we had no idea how they were to be
assembled. A majority of us were senior undergraduates about to become Engineers
(Note: I prefer being called a "Computer Scientist" rather than a "Computer
Engineer"), and assumed that "the tent is a well-designed structure", and that
"we would easily figure something out". Both the assumptions held true. On
unpacking the tents, we were dazzled by their wonderous design and byzantine
pitching mechanism, and were unable to raise either of the two tents. After an
hour of tinkering around, and a few nihilistic statements later, we *figured
out* that we could just spread the tent canvas on the ground, and sleep *on* the
canvas. Then, by carefully wrapping ourselves with blankets, and saying a few
prayers to whatever deity is responsible for protecting stupid fools from small
wild animals, we would be able to survive the night and the biting cold. This
did, however, allow us to sleep *directly* below the stars, and create our own
constellations (named after Orion's other body parts, a dragon, and some generic
bird). Morever, our location was far away from the village of Taila Baila. Owing
to a wedding ceremony on the coming day, the good ladies of the village were
singing sweet songs in their melodious voices late into the hours of the
morning. In our good fortune, we could here these a kilometre away from the
village. After this was done a Disc Jockey played some holy tunes on a loop for
good measure. These songs, the constant "mic checks", and a wonderful echo which
made small sounds seem like growls ensured that our dreams were vivid, and made
the night unforgettable. I have read somewhere that facing extreme conditions
slows down the aging process. If I sleep like this everyday, out in the open in
a biting cold, with loud music played in the background, and imaginary creatures
running around our campsite, I have no doubt that I would become immortal.

The village of Taila Baila does not deserve all the snark from the previous
paragraph. When we reached the village, at around 9pm, an elderly lady offered
us piping hot tea, and allowed us to use her stove for making instant noodles.
Her neighbor took us to a place in his fields where we could safely "pitch" our
tents.

A few trekkers passed us by in the morning after we were up, while we were stowing
the tent canvassed. They seemed visibly impressed by our mad skillz. The
misunderstanding regarding our expertise in pitching tents caused much joy. In
fact, when we saw some tents which were actually pitched, we commented that it
would be impossible to sleep on them, due to their conical structure. It is
amazing how much amusement one can derive of failures which do not have serious
consequences.



